Pytest - the tutorial (#84)
Clinical-Genomics/development: docs/python/testing/fixtures.md

A small flavor of what tests look like with pytest:

```
import pytest
from mypackage import best_movie, perform_division

def test_best_movie():
    movie = best_movie(director='P.T. Anderson')
    assert movie == 'There Will Be Blood'

def test_perform_division():
    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        # call with parameters that should yield error
        perform_division(12, 0)
```

Running your tests is as easy as:

```
$ py.test --verbose
```

## Organizing tests

pytest does a great job of detecting tests. All you need to do is name test modules with a prefix: `test_*`. Each test function should similarly be named `def test_*:`.

Furthermore, organize test files to reflect the source code. The following package:

```
myPackage
|-- utils.py
|-- tools
     |-- docker.py
```

… would result in the following test structure:

```
tests
|-- test_utils.py
|-- tools
     |-- test_tools_docker.py
```

You notice that the term “tools” is “repeating” for the “docker”-test module. This is because pytest requires globally unique test module names!

## Test fixtures

> This is the key concept to start mastering tests. Fixtures are pluggable components that can be shared across many tests to setup pre-conditions like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Fixtures](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/fixture.html) is the key concept to start mastering tests. They are pluggable components that can be shared across many tests to setup pre-conditions like:
```

Reviewer: Yes!

Author: Fixed!

- setup a database connection
- read in lines form a file

They each have their own setup and tear down blocks and you control if they are reset on a function/module/session basis.

Let’s add a few items to our setup:

```
tests
|-- fixtures                    # store static files here
|-- test_utils.py
|-- tools
     |-- test_tools_docker.py
|-- conftest.py                 # write fixture functions here
```

Inside conftest.py you can add fixture functions that will be exposed to your tests. You mark a function as a fixture with a decorator. If you don’t need setup/tear down you can use a simple `@pytest.fixture`. Otherwise it's easiest to use `@pytest.yield_fixture`.

```
# conftest.py
import pytest
from myPackage import DatabaseAPI

@pytest.yield_fixture(scope='function')
def db_connection():
    _db_connection = DatabaseAPI(uri=':memory:')
    _db_connection.create_tables()
    yield _db_connection
    _db_connection.teardown_tables()
```

```
# test_utils.py
def test_add_row(db_connection):
    name = 'Paul T. Anderson'
    add_row(name=name, age=34)
    db_connection.save()
    assert db_connection.get_row(name=name).age == 34
```

> When pytest runs the above function it will look for a fixture called db_connection and run it. Whatever is yielded (or returned) will be passed along to the test function. We set the “scope” of the fixture to “function” so as soon as the test is complete, the block after the yield statement will run. You can pass as many fixtures as you want to a test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When pytest runs the above function it will look for a fixture called `db_connection` and run it. Whatever is yielded (or returned) will be passed along to the test function. We set the “scope” of the fixture to “function” so as soon as the test is complete, the block after the yield statement will run. You can pass as many fixtures as you want to a test.
```
